Now that we have purchased the material,
how do we make sure we're giving it the best chance possible?
That's promotion and marketing.
It's not something that's done to us by publishers. It's something we do for patrons.
We have to books that words.
Don't ignore the items you just added to your collection.
You just spent this time this energy and this money buying diverse items for your collection.
Don't just ignore them.
Remember them for displays and lists and every other way you market your collection.
Remember that books have many entry points.
It's much easier to celebrate them than we think.
This is a title By Way Of Sorrow by Robyn Gigl.
And I'm not going to read all of that for you. But the gist is, it's a book where a senator's son was killed.
And the person who killed them is very much in a population that is easy to dismiss,
and easy to blame for things that that happened.
She swears it was self-defense,
but up against the senator's son. Does that even matter?
There's lots and lots of ways to market this book.
Ordinarily, you're thinking legal thriller, or some kind of fraud.
And that's absolutely true.
But it's also hard book.
So any other title that's hard boiled,
you can put this on a list of that.
It's set New Jersey. If you're setting New Jersey, this is also easy to put on a list.
The author lives in New Jersey.
The legal thriller - you all know John Grisham.
So if you're looking for legal thrillers,
and you're doing a list of legal thrillers that are not John Grisham,
this is one that can go on that lists - dirty crooked politicians.
This is a perennial list,
and not just in thrillers.
This is when you can match with Game of Thrones, which also features a lot of dirty crooked politicians.
And the character is trans.
So you don't have to leave this just for Pride Month.
You can add this to any list and have a title on there that features a trans character.
We get the question a lot of how not to be performative.
So one way to address that, performative would be putting a book on a list, because it has a diverse character,
or a diverse author on a list where it does not belong.
So if you put this on a list of cozy mysteries,
because it has a trans character,
you're being performative.
And that's not something we want to do.
Because people who are looking for cozy mysteries are not looking for this book.
This is not the book for them.
And it would lead to people saying,
I don't like that book with that trans character,
when that's not what they don't like about the book at all.
The book is too bloody for them.
It is too graphically violent.
It might have too graphic of language for them.
That's not a book.
This is not a book that belongs on a cosy book list.
But on a hard boiled book list.
Absolutely.
And it should be there.
So if your patrons love, former police officers like Joe Pike, turned into private investigators, like Robert case,
this is a fantastic and very popular series.
If your patrons love this, we can diversify that by giving them broken places by Tracy Clark,
which is an ex police officer, mystery series set in Chicago for Steven Matt Jones August snow series,
which is a diverse police officer turned private investigator
set in Detroit.
So, all set in big cities hard boiled with that humor
that you kind of expect in private Private Eye novels.
All direct correlations and readalikes to Robert Crease.
And speaking of doing lists specifically for months like pride,
you don't have to wait until June.
To do a Pride Month list or put LGBTQ characters on any book list where they fit
the price. If ghost has trans, inclusive, non binary author,
it's also about spaceships and generational ships,
very similar to the show's Snowpiercer.
Some of the same issues that come up in that show come up in these books.
There's also echoes of antebellum south, and slavery.
All of these are different avenues into this book.
You don't necessarily have to go with the only avenue of non-binary author
or trans inclusive.
But yes, it is those things as well.
multiple avenues, multiple ways to get this book into the hands of someone who may not know that they will love it.
generational shift stories is just one way.
And these are all the things that match that book in this area.
And we should be thinking of that, as well as the identity of the character, and the author.